---
layout: post
title: "Goals for 2015: more writing, Mandarin, releasing a product"
date: 2015-01-16
comments: true
keywords: "2015 goals, goals"
description: "My goals for 2015"
---

Tracking something you want to improve is a great first step to
improving it. Inspired by Amy Hoy's
[2014 goals post](https://unicornfree.com/2015/a-meditation-on-goals),
I decided to think about and write down my goals for this year. Here's
what I'll be up to in 2015:

## Blog more often

Last year, I only wrote 5 posts. In 2015, I want to write much more
than that - at least, two posts per month. I've set up a recurring task
in [Ominfocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) to keep me honest.

## Become fluent in Mandarin

Over the past two years, I have been slowly learning Mandarin.
By the end of this year, I want to be able to:

* have a conversation with my wife's parents
* talk with my wife's friends about work or kids
* have a basic, written conversation with my wife

I know that regular practice is critical. So, I'll be practicing speaking
for at least 30 minutes per day, and reading for 15
minutes per day.

## Release my first product

In the fall of 2014, I took [30x500](https://30x500.com/). I learned
a lot, and I want to put the ideas into practice by releasing my first
product.

## Ride my bike more often

I have been riding bikes for fun and exercise for about 6 years. In 2014,
I was very inconsistent with my riding. You can see that here:

<iframe width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LJhiBW9qgqBX0PccICzNGNmGbNh9HQ9DW08yDJQ4A4M/pubchart?oid=821998706&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>

In 2015, I want to ride more consistently to stay in shape and make sure
that I can keep up with my friends. I'll be shooting for 30 hours per
month of riding.

## Speak at a conference

The thought of speaking at a conference scares the hell out of me,
but I want to give it a shot this year. I think it will be great
get out and meet more people in the tech community.

## Show up on time

I have an embarrassing habit of showing up late. It has slowly gotten
worse over the last few years.

I don't want to keep my friends and co-workers waiting on me so I'll be
working on some [tiny habits](http://tinyhabits.com/) to get me where I
need to be on time.

## Be happier

According to [The How of Happiness](
http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0010O927W/ref=oh_aui_search_detailpage?ie=UTF8&psc=1),
50% of your happiness is genetic, 10% is based on your circumstances,
and the remaining 40% can be increased/decreased independently from your
circumstances.

Instead of focusing on the circumstances of my life
(my job, salary, the city I live in, etc.), I want to try out the
happiness strategies from the book that have more to do with your
attitude and outlook on life.

Each month, I will focus on one of the 12 happiness strategies per month from the
book and do the exercises for that strategy.

## Your Turn

Enough about me. What are your goals for 2015? Let me know in the
comments.

{% include newsletter-cta.html toptext="Want to become a better developer?" bottomtext="Get refactoring, ruby and rails tips in your inbox!" %}
